.\" Man page for code-analysis-server configuration generator CLI.
.TH CASMGR-CONFIG 1 "June 2026" "casmgr-server" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
casmgr-config \- generate, validate, and apply schema for code-analysis-server config
.br
casmgr-config-generate \- generate config.json (shortcut for \fBcasmgr-config generate\fR)
.br
casmgr-config-validate \- validate config.json (shortcut for \fBcasmgr-config validate\fR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B casmgr-config
.I COMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B casmgr-config-generate
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B casmgr-config-validate
[\fB\-\-file\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.PP
Installed to
.IR /usr/bin/
(after
.B casmgr-server
package) or run from a checkout:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./scripts/casmgr-config \-\-help
./scripts/casmgr-config-generate \-\-protocol https \-\-with-proxy \-\-out config.json
./scripts/casmgr-config-validate \-\-file config.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Scripts locate the project root and Python automatically.
In a development checkout the first run creates
.IR .venv
and installs dependencies from
.IR pyproject.toml
(no manual
.BR "pip install"
step).
After
.B casmgr-server
package install, the venv is created by
.BR dpkg
post-install scripts.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B casmgr-config
is the configuration tool for the Code Analysis MCP server. It wraps
.BR CodeAnalysisConfigGenerator ,
which extends
.BR mcp\-proxy\-adapter 's
.B SimpleConfigGenerator
with
.BR code_analysis ,
database driver, worker, docs indexing, and search-session sections.
.PP
Generation is a two-step process:
.IP \(bu 3
.B SimpleConfigGenerator
writes base sections:
.BR server ,
.BR client ,
.BR registration ,
.BR auth ,
.BR queue_manager .
.IP \(bu 3
.B CodeAnalysisConfigGenerator
reloads the file, adds
.BR code_analysis
(database driver, workers, FAISS paths,
.BR docs_indexing ,
.BR search_session ),
aligns
.B client.protocol
and
.B server_validation.protocol
with HTTPS/mTLS, applies queue overrides, and saves JSON (backing up an existing output file to
.BR old_code/ ).
.PP
After
.BR generate ,
the CLI runs
.BR CodeAnalysisConfigValidator
on the result and prints errors or warnings.
.PP
\fBProduction Debian install\fR ships a static template at
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json
(from
.IR /usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/config.json.template ),
not a CLI-generated file. Use
.B casmgr-config
mainly in development or when creating a new config from scratch.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B generate
.BR ( gen )
Write a new config file.
.TP
.B validate
.BR ( val )
Validate an existing config; no writes.
.TP
.B schema
Apply PostgreSQL database schema from config (stops server/workers unless
.BR \-\-no\-stop ).
.SH GENERATE OPTIONS
.SS Required
.TP
.B \-\-protocol {http,https,mtls}
Server protocol. The project validator accepts only
.B https
or
.BR mtls
for production use; prefer
.BR \-\-protocol\ https .
.SS Output
.TP
.BI \-\-out PATH
Output file (default:
.BR config.json ).
SSL paths in the config are resolved relative to the \fIconfig file directory\fR at validation time. Run generate with
.BR \-\-out\ config.json
at the project root, or pass absolute certificate paths.
.TP
.B \-\-with\-proxy
Enable MCP proxy
.B registration
(auto UUID4, register/unregister/heartbeat URLs).
.SS Server
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-host HOST
Bind address (default:
.BR 0.0.0.0 ).
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-port PORT
MCP port (default:
.BR 15000 ;
production package template uses
.BR 15010 ).
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-cert\-file " PATH "
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-key\-file " PATH "
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-ca\-cert\-file " PATH "
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-crl\-file " PATH "
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-log\-dir PATH
(default:
.BR ./logs ).
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-log\-level {DEBUG,INFO,WARNING,ERROR,CRITICAL}
.TP
.B \-\-server\-debug
Enable debug mode.
.SS Registration (with \fB\-\-with\-proxy\fR)
.TP
.BI \-\-registration\-host HOST
Proxy host (default:
.BR localhost ).
.TP
.BI \-\-registration\-port PORT
Proxy port (default:
.BR 3005 ;
many deployments use
.BR 3004 ).
.TP
.BI \-\-registration\-protocol {http,https,mtls}
Defaults to the same as
.BR \-\-protocol
when omitted.
.TP
.BI \-\-registration\-server\-id ID
(default:
.BR code\-analysis\-server ).
.TP
.BI \-\-registration\-server\-name NAME
.TP
.BI \-\-instance\-uuid UUID4
Auto-generated when omitted.
.TP
.BI \-\-registration\-cert\-file " PATH "
.TP
.BI \-\-registration\-key\-file " PATH "
.TP
.BI \-\-registration\-ca\-cert\-file " PATH "
.SS Queue manager
.TP
.B \-\-queue\-enabled
.B \-\-queue\-disabled
.TP
.B \-\-queue\-in\-memory
.B \-\-queue\-persistent
.TP
.BI \-\-queue\-max\-concurrent N
.TP
.BI \-\-queue\-retention\-seconds N
Completed job retention (default base generator:
.BR 21600 ).
.SS code_analysis section
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-driver\-type {postgres}
(default:
.BR postgres ; SQLite support was removed).
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-db\-path PATH
Unused (kept for compatibility); SQLite support was removed (default:
.BR data/code_analysis.db ).
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-pg\-host HOST
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-pg\-port PORT
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-pg\-dbname NAME
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-pg\-user USER
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-pg\-password\-env VAR
(default:
.BR CODE_ANALYSIS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD ).
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-log PATH
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-faiss\-index\-path PATH
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-vector\-dim N
.TP
.BI \-\-indexing\-worker\-enabled
.B \-\-indexing\-worker\-disabled
.TP
.BI \-\-file\-watcher\-enabled
.B \-\-file\-watcher\-disabled
.TP
.B \-\-allow\-line\-commands\-on\-healthy\-files
.SS docs_indexing (Markdown/JSON/YAML docs roots)
.TP
.B \-\-code\-analysis\-docs\-indexing\-enabled
.B \-\-code\-analysis\-docs\-indexing\-disabled
(default: disabled).
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-docs\-indexing\-roots CSV
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-docs\-indexing\-include CSV
.TP
.BI \-\-code\-analysis\-docs\-indexing\-exclude CSV
.SH GENERATED code_analysis DEFAULTS
When not overridden, the generator adds:
.TP
.B database.driver
.B postgres
(SQLite support was removed; PostgreSQL is required).
.TP
.B database.rpc
shared-memory threshold 65536 bytes.
.TP
.B indexing_worker
enabled, poll 30s, batch 5.
.TP
.B file_watcher
enabled, scan 60s, version dir
.BR data/versions .
.TP
.B docs_indexing
disabled; safe include globs for @file{docs/} when enabled.
.TP
.B search_session
TTL and max block size from code constants.
.TP
.B port
Matches
.BR \-\-server\-port
(default 15000).
.SH CONVENIENCE COMMANDS
.TP
.B casmgr-config-generate
Same as
.BR "casmgr-config generate" .
All
.B generate
options apply (e.g.
.BR \-\-protocol\ https ,
.BR \-\-with\-proxy ).
.TP
.B casmgr-config-validate
Same as
.BR "casmgr-config validate" .
When called with no arguments and
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json
exists (or
.BR CASMGR_CONFIG
is set), validates that file automatically.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Development HTTPS + MCP proxy + PostgreSQL
.PP
From the git checkout root (cert paths relative to generated @file{config.json}):
.PP
.RS
.nf
casmgr-config-generate \\
  \-\-protocol https \\
  \-\-with\-proxy \\
  \-\-registration\-port 3004 \\
  \-\-registration\-server\-id code\-analysis\-server\-dev \\
  \-\-server\-port 15000 \\
  \-\-server\-cert\-file mtls_certificates/.../server.crt \\
  \-\-server\-key\-file mtls_certificates/.../server.key \\
  \-\-server\-ca\-cert\-file mtls_certificates/.../ca.crt \\
  \-\-registration\-cert\-file mtls_certificates/.../client.crt \\
  \-\-registration\-key\-file mtls_certificates/.../client.key \\
  \-\-registration\-ca\-cert\-file mtls_certificates/.../ca.crt \\
  \-\-code\-analysis\-driver\-type postgres \\
  \-\-code\-analysis\-pg\-user code_analysis \\
  \-\-out config.json
.fi
.RE
.SS Validate existing config
.PP
.RS
.nf
casmgr-config-validate
casmgr-config validate \-\-file /etc/casmgr/config.json
.fi
.RE
.SS Apply PostgreSQL schema (development)
.PP
.RS
.nf
casmgr-config schema \-\-file config.json
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.BR config.json
\-\- typical output in project root
.br
.BR old_code/
\-\- backup of previous output when regenerating
.br
.IR /usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/config.json.template
\-\- production static template (not produced by this CLI)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR casmgr-server (8),
.BR casmgr (1),
info \fBcasmgr-server\fR,
.IR /usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/CASMGR_DEPLOYMENT.md
.SH AUTHOR
Vasiliy Zdanovskiy <vasilyvz@gmail.com>
