.\" Man page for casmgr-server production deployment.
.TH CASMGR-SERVER 8 "June 2026" "casmgr-server" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
casmgr-server \- Code Analysis MCP server and PostgreSQL (Docker) deployment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B casmgr
[\fB--config\fR \fIPATH\fR] {start|stop|restart|status|sessions|locks}
.PP
.B casmgr-postgres-container
{\fBpull\fR|\fBrecreate\fR|\fBstart\fR|\fBstop\fR|\fBremove\fR|\fBstatus\fR}
.PP
.B casmgr-pg-init
[\fB--fix-existing-db-owner\fR]
.PP
.B casmgr-pg-set-password
[\fB--superuser-only\fR]
.PP
.B systemctl
{start|stop|restart|status|enable} {casmgr-postgres|casmgr-server}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B casmgr-server
is the production deployment of the Code Analysis MCP server. The Debian package
installs application code under
.IR /usr/lib/casmgr-server ,
systemd units, admin scripts under
.IR /usr/lib/casmgr/bin/
(symlinked in
.IR /usr/sbin/ ),
and configuration under
.IR /etc/casmgr/ .
.PP
PostgreSQL with pgvector runs in Docker container
.BR casmgr-postgres .
The package version equals the Docker Hub tag recorded in
.IR /usr/share/casmgr/docker-image .
.PP
Admin scripts accept only
.B root
or
.BR casuser .
The MCP daemon runs as
.BR casuser:casgrp .
.PP
Full narrative guide:
.IR /usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/CASMGR_DEPLOYMENT.md .
Extended reference:
.B info casmgr-server
.SH FILES AND LAYOUT
.TP
.B /etc/casmgr/config.json
Main server configuration (mode 640, group
.BR casgrp ).
Conffile: preserved across package upgrades.
.TP
.B /var/casmgr/secrets/.env
PostgreSQL passwords and optional overrides (mode 640,
.BR casuser:casgrp ).
Conffile.
.TP
.B /etc/casmgr/mtls/
mTLS certificates for server and MCP proxy registration (mode 0750, group
.BR casgrp ).
.TP
.B /var/casmgr/postgres/data
PostgreSQL data directory (bind mount, UID 999).
.TP
.B /var/casmgr/postgres/cache
PostgreSQL cache directory (bind mount, UID 999).
.TP
.B /var/log/casmgr
Application logs;
.B /var/log/casmgr/postgres
for PostgreSQL inside Docker.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/casmgr/bin/
Admin scripts (also
.IR /usr/sbin/ ).
.TP
.B /usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/config.json.template
Reference copy of the shipped config template.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration file:
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json .
JSON with comments is supported (JSONC). On first install the template is copied
from the package; placeholders must be replaced before
.B casmgr-server.service
starts automatically.
.SS server
MCP HTTPS listener and logging.
.TP
.B host
Bind address (default
.BR 0.0.0.0 ).
.TP
.B port
TCP port for MCP/API (production default
.BR 15010 ;
dev git checkout uses
.BR 15000 ).
.TP
.B protocol
.B https
for production mTLS.
.TP
.B servername
TLS server name (SNI).
.TP
.B advertised_host
Host/IP sent to MCP proxy at registration. Replace
.B CHANGE_ME
with this machine's reachable address.
.TP
.B log_dir
Application log directory (default
.IR /var/log/casmgr ).
.TP
.B ssl.cert, ssl.key, ssl.ca
Paths to server certificate, private key, and CA under
.IR /etc/casmgr/mtls/ .
.SS registration
MCP proxy registration and heartbeat.
.TP
.B enabled
.B true
to register on startup.
.TP
.B register_url, unregister_url, heartbeat.url
Replace
.B MCP_PROXY_HOST
with the proxy hostname or IP (port 3004 in the template).
.TP
.B server_id
Proxy-visible server identifier (production:
.BR code-analysis-server ).
.TP
.B server_name
Human-readable name in proxy catalog.
.TP
.B instance_uuid
Unique UUID4 per server instance. Auto-generated on install; must differ when
two servers share one PostgreSQL cluster.
.TP
.B auto_on_startup, auto_on_shutdown
Register/unregister with proxy on daemon start/stop.
.TP
.B heartbeat.interval
Seconds between heartbeat requests (default 30).
.TP
.B ssl.cert, ssl.key, ssl.ca
Client mTLS credentials for proxy communication.
.SS code_analysis
Application storage, database, and background workers.
.TP
.B port
Legacy/auxiliary port; keep equal to
.B server.port
in production.
.TP
.B log
Path to main application log file.
.TP
.B storage
Directories under
.IR /var/casmgr/
for SQLite fallback paths, FAISS indexes, locks, backups, trash.
.TP
.B database.driver.type
.B postgres
in production.
.TP
.B database.driver.config
PostgreSQL connection:
.B host
(default
.BR 127.0.0.1 ),
.B port
(5432),
.B dbname
,
.B user
,
.B password_env
(name of variable in
.IR /var/casmgr/secrets/.env ,
typically
.BR CODE_ANALYSIS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD ).
.TP
.B worker
Vectorization worker:
.B enabled
,
.B poll_interval
,
.B batch_size
,
.B log_path
,
.B watch_dirs
— list of indexed directory roots, each
\fB{"id": "<uuid>", "path": "/absolute/path"}\fR.
.TP
.B file_watcher
File change watcher:
.B enabled
,
.B log_path
,
.B version_dir
(under
.IR /var/casmgr/versions ).
.TP
.B indexing_worker
Code index maintenance worker (poll interval, batch size, log path).
.SS Other sections
.TP
.B queue_manager
In-memory job queue limits and retention.
.TP
.B process_management.shutdown_grace_seconds
Grace period on daemon shutdown.
.TP
.B auth
Optional token/role auth (disabled in default template).
.SH SECRETS
File:
.IR /var/casmgr/secrets/.env .
Loaded by systemd (
.B EnvironmentFile
), admin scripts, and the daemon via
.BR password_env .
.TP
.B POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD
Target password for PostgreSQL superuser (
.BR postgres ).
Also used as
.B POSTGRES_PASSWORD
when the Docker container is first created.
.TP
.B CODE_ANALYSIS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD
Application role password; referenced by
.B code_analysis.database.driver.config.password_env
.TP
.B POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_CONNECT_PASSWORD
Optional. Current superuser password when
.B POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD
is being rotated and differs from the cluster password.
.TP
.B POSTGRES_DB
Database name created in the container (default
.BR code_analysis ).
.PP
On first install, random passwords are generated if placeholders remain.
Back up this file securely. After any edit, run
.BR casmgr-pg-set-password .
.SH mTLS
Install five files under
.IR /etc/casmgr/mtls/ :
.TP
.B server.crt, server.key
Server certificate and private key (MCP/API listener).
.TP
.B ca.crt
Certificate authority for verifying peers.
.TP
.B client.crt, client.key
Client certificate for MCP proxy registration.
.PP
Permissions (applied by
.BR "dpkg --configure casmgr-server" ):
directory mode 0750
.BR root:casgrp ;
files mode 0640. Private keys must be readable by
.BR casuser
(via group
.BR casgrp ).
.SH ADMIN COMMANDS
All commands below require
.B root
or
.BR casuser .
Paths shown are production defaults.
.SS casmgr-postgres-container
Manage Docker container
.BR casmgr-postgres .
.TP
.B pull
Download image from
.IR /usr/share/casmgr/docker-image .
.TP
.B recreate
Remove existing container and create a new one with host bind mounts. Uses
.B POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD
and
.B POSTGRES_DB
from secrets. Publishes PostgreSQL on
.BR 127.0.0.1:5432
(port from config).
.TP
.B start
Start container; runs
.B recreate
if missing.
.TP
.B stop
Stop container.
.TP
.B remove
Stop and remove container (image retained).
.TP
.B status
Print container name, state, and image.
.PP
Bind mounts:
.B /var/casmgr/postgres/data
,
.B /var/casmgr/postgres/cache
,
.B /var/log/casmgr/postgres
,
.B /etc/casmgr
(read-only).
.SS casmgr-pg-init
Bootstrap PostgreSQL after the container is running:
.IP \(bu 3
Apply superuser password from secrets.
.IP \(bu 3
Create application role and database from
.IR config.json
driver settings.
.IP \(bu 3
Grant privileges on database and
.B public
schema.
.PP
Option
.B --fix-existing-db-owner
runs
.B ALTER DATABASE ... OWNER
when the database already exists.
.PP
Run after first install, after
.B recreate
on empty data, or when secrets were reset:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo systemctl start casmgr-postgres
sudo casmgr-pg-init
.fi
.RE
.SS casmgr-pg-set-password
Apply passwords from
.IR /var/casmgr/secrets/.env
to the running cluster.
.PP
Default: updates superuser and application role
.RB ( ALTER ROLE ).
Option
.B --superuser-only
skips the application role.
.PP
When rotating the superuser password, set
.B POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_CONNECT_PASSWORD
to the current cluster password for that run.
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo casmgr-pg-set-password
sudo casmgr-pg-set-password --superuser-only
.fi
.RE
.SS casmgr
Daemon manager CLI (also
.IR /usr/bin/casmgr ).
Uses the package venv when installed under
.IR /usr/lib/casmgr-server .
.TP
.B --config PATH
Config file (default
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json
via
.BR CASMGR_CONFIG ).
.TP
.B start, stop, restart, status
Start or stop the MCP daemon outside systemd, or inspect pidfile/process state.
.TP
.B sessions, locks
List active client sessions and file locks.
.PP
Production service management should use systemd; use
.B casmgr
for debugging or non-systemd layouts.
.SS casmgr_ensure_instance_uuid
Python helper at
.IR /usr/lib/casmgr-server/scripts/casmgr_ensure_instance_uuid.py .
Ensures
.B registration.instance_uuid
is a valid UUID4. Invoked from package
.BR postinst .
.TP
.B --config PATH
Config file (default
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json ).
.TP
.B --dry-run
Report without writing.
.SH SYSTEMD
.TP
.B casmgr-postgres.service
Oneshot unit: starts Docker container via
.BR casmgr-postgres-container start .
Requires Docker.
.TP
.B casmgr-server.service
Runs MCP daemon as
.BR casuser .
Requires
.BR casmgr-postgres.service .
Reads
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json ;
loads
.IR /var/casmgr/secrets/.env .
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo systemctl enable casmgr-postgres casmgr-server
sudo systemctl start casmgr-postgres
sudo casmgr-pg-init
sudo systemctl start casmgr-server
sudo systemctl status casmgr-postgres casmgr-server
sudo journalctl -u casmgr-server -f
.fi
.RE
.PP
The package starts
.B casmgr-server
automatically only when config has no
.B CHANGE_ME
or
.B MCP_PROXY_HOST
placeholders and all five mTLS files exist.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Admin scripts and services honor these variables when set:
.TP
.B CASMGR_CONFIG
Path to
.IR config.json
(default
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json ).
.TP
.B CASMGR_SECRETS
Secrets directory (default
.IR /var/casmgr/secrets ).
.TP
.B CASMGR_ETC, CASMGR_VAR, CASMGR_LOG
Configuration, data, and log roots under FHS layout.
.TP
.B CASMGR_PG_CONTAINER
Docker container name (default
.BR casmgr-postgres ).
.TP
.B CODE_ANALYSIS_DAEMON_PYTHON, CASMGR_PYTHON
Override Python interpreter for admin tooling.
.SH INSTALLATION
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo dpkg -i casmgr-server_VERSION-1_all.deb
sudo apt-get install -f
.fi
.RE
.PP
On configure: creates
.B casuser
/
.BR casgrp ,
installs config and secrets if missing, pulls Docker image, recreates container,
runs
.BR casmgr-pg-init ,
enables systemd units, and prints a post-install checklist.
.SH POST-INSTALL
Replace placeholders in
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json
(\fBadvertised_host\fR, MCP proxy URLs,
.BR watch_dirs ).
Review passwords in
.IR /var/casmgr/secrets/.env
and apply with
.BR casmgr-pg-set-password .
Install mTLS files under
.IR /etc/casmgr/mtls/ ,
then start services (see
.B SYSTEMD
above).
.SH RELEASE BUILD
From the source tree:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./build.sh
./scripts/release_build.sh [--deb-only|--docker-only]
.fi
.RE
.SH UPGRADE
Replaces legacy package
.BR code-analysis-server .
Disables
.B code-analysis-server.service
if present. Preserves conffiles
.IR /etc/casmgr/config.json
and
.IR /var/casmgr/secrets/.env .
.SH REMOVAL
.TP
.B apt remove casmgr-server
Stops units and removes the container; keeps image and
.IR /var/casmgr
data.
.TP
.B apt purge casmgr-server
Also removes the pinned Docker image.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR casmgr-config (1),
.BR casmgr (1),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR docker (1),
info \fBcasmgr-server\fR,
.IR /usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/CASMGR_DEPLOYMENT.md
.SH CONFIG GENERATOR
For generating dev configs from scratch, see
.BR casmgr-config (1)
(\fBcasmgr-config\fR,
.BR casmgr-config-generate ,
.BR casmgr-config-validate ).
Production installs use the static template at
.IR /usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/config.json.template ,
not the CLI.
.SH AUTHOR
Vasiliy Zdanovskiy <vasilyvz@gmail.com>
