@node Top
@top Casmgr Server Deployment

@cindex casmgr-server
@cindex code-analysis-server
@cindex PostgreSQL
@cindex config.json
@cindex casmgr-pg-set-password

@menu
* Overview::                    Purpose and filesystem layout
* Release build::               Docker image + Debian package
* Installation::                apt install and post-install checklist
* Config generator::              casmgr-config CLI (generate, validate, schema)
* Config reference::            /etc/casmgr/config.json sections
* Secrets::                     /var/casmgr/secrets/.env variables
* mTLS::                        Certificate layout and permissions
* Admin commands::              Setup and maintenance tools
* PostgreSQL container::        Docker mounts and lifecycle
* Ports and co-existence with dev::  MCP ports vs git checkout
* Git and GitHub commands::     Repository workflow through MCP
* Command reference::           Live MCP command schema and metadata catalog
* Systemd::                     Service units and journal
* Environment::                 Override variables for admin scripts
* Upgrade and removal::         apt upgrade, remove, purge
* Troubleshooting::             Common failures
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

The @code{casmgr-server} Debian package installs:

@itemize
@item
The Code Analysis MCP daemon (@code{casmgr-server.service}), running as @code{casuser:casgrp}.
@item
A version-locked PostgreSQL/pgvector Docker container (@code{casmgr-postgres.service}).
@item
Admin scripts under @file{/usr/lib/casmgr/bin/} (symlinked in @file{/usr/sbin/}).
@end itemize

@strong{Version lock:} the Debian package version equals the Docker Hub tag for
@code{casmgr-postgres}. The full image reference is stored in
@file{/usr/share/casmgr/docker-image} at install time.

@heading Host filesystem layout

@table @asis
@item @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json}
Server configuration (mode 640, group @code{casgrp}, @strong{conffile}).
@item @file{/var/casmgr/secrets/.env}
PostgreSQL passwords (mode 640, @code{casuser:casgrp}, @strong{conffile}).
@item @file{/etc/casmgr/mtls/}
Server and client mTLS material (mode 0750, @code{root:casgrp}).
@item @file{/var/casmgr/postgres/data}
Database cluster files (bind-mounted, UID 999).
@item @file{/var/casmgr/postgres/cache}
Database cache directory (bind-mounted, UID 999).
@item @file{/var/log/casmgr}
Application logs; @file{/var/log/casmgr/postgres} for PostgreSQL inside Docker.
@item @file{/var/casmgr/data}, @file{faiss}, @file{locks}, @file{backups}, @file{trash}, @file{versions}
Application storage paths referenced from config.
@item @file{/usr/lib/casmgr-server}
Application tree and Python virtual environment.
@item @file{/usr/lib/casmgr/bin/}
Admin scripts (@code{casmgr-postgres-container}, @code{casmgr-pg-init}, @code{casmgr-pg-set-password}).
@item @file{/usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/config.json.template}
Reference copy of the shipped config template.
@item @file{/usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/CASMGR_DEPLOYMENT.md}
Narrative deployment guide.
@end table

Only @code{root} or @code{casuser} may run PostgreSQL admin scripts.

@node Release build
@chapter Release build

After git clone, build the Debian package with one command (installs build deps via
@code{sudo apt-get} when needed):

@example
./build.sh
@end example

Full release (Docker push + deb), version from @file{pyproject.toml} unless passed explicitly:

@example
./scripts/release_build.sh
./scripts/release_build.sh 1.0.7 --deb-only
@end example

Environment variables:

@table @asis
@item @code{CASMGR_DOCKER_REGISTRY}
Docker Hub user or registry prefix (default: @code{vasilyvz}).
@item @code{CASMGR_DOCKER_IMAGE_NAME}
Image name (default: @code{casmgr-postgres}).
@end table

Flags:

@table @asis
@item @code{--deb-only}
Build the Debian package without pushing Docker.
@item @code{--docker-only}
Push Docker only, skip @code{dpkg-buildpackage}.
@item @code{--skip-deps}
Do not auto-install build packages.
@end table

@node Installation
@chapter Installation

@example
sudo dpkg -i casmgr-server_1.0.6-1_all.deb
sudo apt-get install -f
@end example

@code{postinst} on @code{configure}:

@enumerate
@item Creates @code{casuser} / @code{casgrp}.
@item Installs @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json} from template if missing; generates @code{instance_uuid}.
@item Generates @file{/var/casmgr/secrets/.env} with random passwords if missing.
@item @code{docker pull} for the pinned image.
@item Recreates container @code{casmgr-postgres} with host bind mounts.
@item Runs @code{casmgr-pg-init} (roles, database, grants).
@item Enables systemd units; starts PostgreSQL when Docker is available.
@item Starts @code{casmgr-server} only after config placeholders and mTLS are ready.
@item Prints a post-install checklist on the terminal.
@end enumerate

@heading Post-install checklist

@enumerate
@item Edit @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json}: replace @code{CHANGE_ME}, @code{MCP_PROXY_HOST}, set @code{watch_dirs}.
@item Review @file{/var/casmgr/secrets/.env} (passwords auto-generated on first install); back up securely.
@item Install mTLS files under @file{/etc/casmgr/mtls/}.
@item @code{sudo casmgr-pg-set-password} after editing passwords; @code{sudo casmgr-pg-init} for first DB bootstrap.
@item @code{sudo systemctl start casmgr-server} when config and certificates are ready.
@end enumerate

@node Config generator, Config reference, Installation, Top
@chapter Config generator

Production installs use the static template @file{/usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/config.json.template}
copied to @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json}. For development and custom deployments, generate
a config with the @strong{casmgr-config} CLI:

@example
casmgr-config generate --help
casmgr-config-generate --protocol https --with-proxy --out config.json
casmgr-config-validate
casmgr-config schema --file config.json
@end example

Installed package: commands in @file{/usr/bin/} (same names).

@example
casmgr-config-generate --protocol https --with-proxy --out /tmp/test.json
@end example

@heading Architecture

Generation runs in two phases:

@enumerate
@item @code{SimpleConfigGenerator} (from @code{mcp-proxy-adapter}) writes @code{server},
@code{client}, @code{registration}, @code{auth}, and @code{queue_manager}.
@item @code{CodeAnalysisConfigGenerator} reloads the file, adds @code{code_analysis}
(database driver, workers, @code{docs_indexing}, @code{search_session}), aligns HTTPS
protocol fields, applies queue CLI overrides, backs up an existing output file to
@file{old_code/}, and saves JSON.
@end enumerate

The @code{generate} command always runs @code{CodeAnalysisConfigValidator} afterward.

@heading Defaults and conventions

@table @asis
@item MCP port
@strong{15000} when @code{--server-port} is omitted (@code{code_analysis.port} matches).
Production template uses @strong{15010}.
@item Database driver
@code{sqlite_proxy} unless @code{--code-analysis-driver-type postgres}.
@item Registration
Requires @code{--with-proxy}. @code{registration.protocol} defaults to @code{server.protocol}.
@code{registration.server_id} defaults to @code{code-analysis-server}; use
@code{code-analysis-server-dev} on dev hosts sharing a proxy with production.
@item SSL paths
Stored as absolute paths when the source file exists under the current directory.
Validator resolves relative paths against the @strong{config file directory}—prefer
@code{--out config.json} at the project root or absolute paths.
@item @code{docs_indexing}
Disabled by default (safe Markdown/JSON/YAML globs under @file{docs/} when enabled).
@item @code{search_session}
Emits @code{ttl_seconds} and @code{max_block_size_bytes} from code constants.
@end table

@heading Example: dev HTTPS, proxy, PostgreSQL

From the git checkout root:

@example
casmgr-config-generate \
  --protocol https \
  --with-proxy \
  --registration-port 3004 \
  --registration-server-id code-analysis-server-dev \
  --server-port 15000 \
  --server-cert-file mtls_certificates/mtls_certificates/server/code-analysis-server.crt \
  --server-key-file mtls_certificates/mtls_certificates/server/code-analysis-server.key \
  --server-ca-cert-file mtls_certificates/mtls_certificates/ca/ca.crt \
  --registration-cert-file mtls_certificates/mtls_certificates/client/code-analysis.crt \
  --registration-key-file mtls_certificates/mtls_certificates/client/code-analysis.key \
  --registration-ca-cert-file mtls_certificates/mtls_certificates/ca/ca.crt \
  --code-analysis-driver-type postgres \
  --code-analysis-pg-user code_analysis \
  --out config.json
@end example

@heading Subcommands

@table @asis
@item @code{generate} (@code{gen})
Write config; validate result.
@item @code{validate} (@code{val})
@code{--file PATH} — check config only.
@item @code{schema}
Apply SQLite schema from config; stops server unless @code{--no-stop}.
@end table

See @code{man casmgr-config} for the full option list.

@node Config reference, Secrets, Config generator, Top
@chapter Config reference

Primary file: @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json}. JSON with comments (JSONC) is supported.
Template: @file{/usr/share/doc/casmgr-server/config.json.template}. To create a new dev
config from scratch, use the @ref{Config generator,,Config generator} chapter.

@section server

MCP HTTPS listener and logging.

@table @asis
@item @code{host}
Bind address (default @code{0.0.0.0}).
@item @code{port}
TCP port for MCP/API. Production default @strong{15010}; dev git checkout uses @strong{15000}.
@item @code{protocol}
@code{https} for production mTLS.
@item @code{servername}
TLS server name (SNI).
@item @code{advertised_host}
Host/IP advertised to MCP proxy at registration. Replace @code{CHANGE_ME}.
@item @code{log_dir}
Application log directory (default @file{/var/log/casmgr}).
@item @code{ssl.cert}, @code{ssl.key}, @code{ssl.ca}
Paths to server certificate, private key, and CA under @file{/etc/casmgr/mtls/}.
@end table

@section registration

MCP proxy registration and heartbeat.

@table @asis
@item @code{enabled}
@code{true} to register on startup.
@item @code{register_url}, @code{unregister_url}, @code{heartbeat.url}
Replace @code{MCP_PROXY_HOST} with proxy hostname or IP (port @code{3004} in template).
@item @code{server_id}
Proxy-visible identifier (production: @code{code-analysis-server}).
@item @code{server_name}
Human-readable name in proxy catalog.
@item @code{instance_uuid}
UUID4 unique per server instance. Auto-generated on install; must differ when two servers share one PostgreSQL cluster.
@item @code{auto_on_startup}, @code{auto_on_shutdown}
Register/unregister with proxy on daemon start/stop.
@item @code{heartbeat.interval}
Seconds between heartbeat requests (default @code{30}).
@item @code{ssl.cert}, @code{ssl.key}, @code{ssl.ca}
Client mTLS credentials for proxy communication.
@end table

@section code_analysis

Application storage, database, and background workers.

@table @asis
@item @code{port}
Keep equal to @code{server.port} in production.
@item @code{log}
Main application log file path.
@item @code{storage}
Directories under @file{/var/casmgr/} for indexes, locks, backups, trash.
@item @code{database.driver.type}
@code{postgres} in production.
@item @code{database.driver.config}
@code{host} (@code{127.0.0.1}), @code{port} (@code{5432}), @code{dbname}, @code{user}, @code{password_env}.
@item @code{worker}
Vectorization worker: @code{enabled}, @code{poll_interval}, @code{batch_size}, @code{log_path}, @code{watch_dirs}.
@item @code{file_watcher}
File change watcher: @code{enabled}, @code{log_path}, @code{version_dir}.
@item @code{indexing_worker}
Code index worker: poll interval, batch size, log path.
@end table

@heading watch_dirs format

Each entry in @code{code_analysis.worker.watch_dirs} indexes a filesystem root.
Use stable UUID @code{id} values. Paths must be absolute and readable by @code{casuser}.

@verbatim
"watch_dirs": [
  {"id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000", "path": "/srv/projects"}
]
@end verbatim

@section Other config sections

@table @asis
@item @code{queue_manager}
In-memory job queue limits and completed-job retention.
@item @code{process_management.shutdown_grace_seconds}
Grace period on daemon shutdown.
@item @code{auth}
Optional token/role authentication (disabled in default template).
@item @code{client}, @code{server_validation}
Disabled in default production template.
@end table

@node Secrets, mTLS, Config reference, Top
@chapter Secrets

File: @file{/var/casmgr/secrets/.env}. Loaded by systemd (@code{EnvironmentFile}), admin scripts, and the daemon via @code{password_env}.

@table @asis
@item @code{POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD}
Target password for PostgreSQL superuser (@code{postgres}). Also used as @code{POSTGRES_PASSWORD} when the Docker container is first created.
@item @code{CODE_ANALYSIS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
Application role password; referenced by @code{code_analysis.database.driver.config.password_env}.
@item @code{POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_CONNECT_PASSWORD}
Optional. Current superuser password when @code{POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD} is being rotated and differs from the cluster password.
@item @code{POSTGRES_DB}
Database name created in the container (default @code{code_analysis}).
@end table

On first install, random passwords replace @code{CHANGE_ME_*} placeholders. Back up this file securely.

After any edit, apply to the running cluster:

@example
sudo casmgr-pg-set-password
@end example

Superuser only:

@example
sudo casmgr-pg-set-password --superuser-only
@end example

@node mTLS, Admin commands, Secrets, Top
@chapter mTLS

Install five files under @file{/etc/casmgr/mtls/}:

@table @asis
@item @code{server.crt}, @code{server.key}
Server certificate and private key (MCP/API listener).
@item @code{ca.crt}
Certificate authority for verifying peers.
@item @code{client.crt}, @code{client.key}
Client certificate for MCP proxy registration.
@end table

Permissions (applied by @code{dpkg --configure casmgr-server}): directory mode @code{0750} @code{root:casgrp}; files mode @code{0640}. Private keys must be readable by @code{casuser} via group @code{casgrp}.

Paths in @file{config.json} (see template for full structure):

@verbatim
"server": { "ssl": {
  "cert": "/etc/casmgr/mtls/server.crt",
  "key": "/etc/casmgr/mtls/server.key",
  "ca": "/etc/casmgr/mtls/ca.crt"
}},
"registration": { "ssl": {
  "cert": "/etc/casmgr/mtls/client.crt",
  "key": "/etc/casmgr/mtls/client.key",
  "ca": "/etc/casmgr/mtls/ca.crt"
}}
@end verbatim

@node Admin commands, PostgreSQL container, mTLS, Top
@chapter Admin commands

All commands require @code{root} or @code{casuser}. Installed under @file{/usr/lib/casmgr/bin/} and @file{/usr/sbin/}.

@section casmgr-postgres-container

Manage Docker container @code{casmgr-postgres}.

@table @asis
@item @code{pull}
Download image from @file{/usr/share/casmgr/docker-image}.
@item @code{recreate}
Remove existing container and create a new one with host bind mounts. Uses @code{POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD} and @code{POSTGRES_DB} from secrets. Publishes PostgreSQL on @code{127.0.0.1:5432} (port from config).
@item @code{start}
Start container; runs @code{recreate} if missing.
@item @code{stop}
Stop container.
@item @code{remove}
Stop and remove container (image retained).
@item @code{status}
Print container name, state, and image.
@end table

@example
sudo casmgr-postgres-container pull
sudo casmgr-postgres-container recreate
sudo casmgr-postgres-container status
@end example

@section casmgr-pg-init

Bootstrap PostgreSQL after the container is running:

@itemize
@item Apply superuser password from secrets.
@item Create application role and database from @file{config.json} driver settings.
@item Grant privileges on database and @code{public} schema.
@end itemize

Option @code{--fix-existing-db-owner} runs @code{ALTER DATABASE ... OWNER} when the database already exists.

@example
sudo systemctl start casmgr-postgres
sudo casmgr-pg-init
sudo casmgr-pg-init --fix-existing-db-owner
@end example

@section casmgr-pg-set-password

Apply passwords from @file{/var/casmgr/secrets/.env} to the running cluster.

Default: updates superuser and application role (@code{ALTER ROLE}). Option @code{--superuser-only} skips the application role.

When rotating the superuser password, set @code{POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_CONNECT_PASSWORD} to the current cluster password for that run.

@example
sudo casmgr-pg-set-password
sudo casmgr-pg-set-password --superuser-only
@end example

@section casmgr

Daemon manager CLI (@file{/usr/bin/casmgr}). Uses the package venv under @file{/usr/lib/casmgr-server}.

@table @asis
@item @code{--config PATH}
Config file (default @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json} via @code{CASMGR_CONFIG}).
@item @code{start}, @code{stop}, @code{restart}, @code{status}
Manage MCP daemon outside systemd or inspect process state.
@item @code{sessions}, @code{locks}
List active client sessions and file locks.
@end table

Production service management should use systemd; use @code{casmgr} for debugging.

@example
sudo casmgr --config /etc/casmgr/config.json status
sudo casmgr --config /etc/casmgr/config.json restart
@end example

@section casmgr_ensure_instance_uuid

Python helper at @file{/usr/lib/casmgr-server/scripts/casmgr_ensure_instance_uuid.py}. Ensures @code{registration.instance_uuid} is a valid UUID4. Invoked from package @code{postinst}.

@example
sudo /usr/lib/casmgr-server/.venv/bin/python \
  /usr/lib/casmgr-server/scripts/casmgr_ensure_instance_uuid.py \
  --config /etc/casmgr/config.json
sudo .../casmgr_ensure_instance_uuid.py --dry-run
@end example

@node PostgreSQL container, Ports and co-existence with dev, Admin commands, Top
@chapter PostgreSQL container

@code{casmgr-postgres-container recreate} removes any old container and creates a new one:

@example
sudo casmgr-postgres-container pull
sudo casmgr-postgres-container recreate
sudo casmgr-pg-init
@end example

Bind mounts:

@table @asis
@item Host @file{/var/casmgr/postgres/data}
Container @file{/var/lib/postgresql/data}
@item Host @file{/var/casmgr/postgres/cache}
Container @file{/var/lib/postgresql/cache}
@item Host @file{/var/log/casmgr/postgres}
Container @file{/var/log/postgresql}
@item Host @file{/etc/casmgr}
Container @file{/etc/casmgr} (read-only)
@item Host @file{/etc/casmgr/postgres}
Container @file{/etc/casmgr/postgres} (read-only)
@end table

Port publishing: @code{127.0.0.1:5432} on the host (configurable via @code{code_analysis.database.driver.config.port}).

@node Ports and co-existence with dev, Git and GitHub commands, PostgreSQL container, Top
@chapter Ports and co-existence with dev

On one host, production and a git-checkout dev server must not share the same MCP
port or proxy @code{server_id}:

@table @asis
@item Production (@file{/etc/casmgr/config.json})
MCP port @strong{15010}, @code{registration.server_id} @code{code-analysis-server}
@item Development (repo @file{config.json})
MCP port @strong{15000}, @code{registration.server_id} @code{code-analysis-server-dev}
@item PostgreSQL (Docker)
@code{127.0.0.1:5432} — may be shared; use distinct @code{instance_uuid} per server
@end table

Upgrades preserve an existing @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json}; change
@code{server.port} to @strong{15010} if it still uses @strong{15000} and you run
both servers on the same machine.

@node Git and GitHub commands, Command reference, Ports and co-existence with dev, Top
@chapter Git and GitHub commands

The package exposes a project-scoped Git and GitHub command set through MCP.
Agents should use these commands through the proxy instead of running shell
@code{git} commands when the target repository is registered as a casmgr project.
Every command resolves @code{project_id} to the registered project root; callers
pass project-relative paths and refs, not host working directories.

@heading Invocation model

Use MCP proxy discovery first:

@example
list_servers
list_projects
call_server(server_id="code-analysis-server", copy_number=1,
            command="<command>", params=project_id:<uuid>)
@end example

Long-running or mutating Git commands may return @code{job_id}; poll
@code{queue_get_job_status} until @code{status} is @code{completed} or
@code{failed}. Treat "queued" as submission only, not command success. The final
job payload contains @code{command_success}, @code{inner_success}, and the command
result.

@heading Repository identity and config

@table @code
@item git_config_get
Read one Git config key from @code{local}, @code{global}, or effective scope.
Missing keys return @code{configured=false} rather than failing.
@item git_config_list
List Git config entries, optionally with origin metadata.
@item git_identity_get
Return local and effective @code{user.name} / @code{user.email}.
@item git_identity_set
Set @code{user.name} and @code{user.email}. Defaults to local repository config;
global config requires an explicit @code{allow_global=true}.
@end table

Use @code{git_identity_get} before the first commit in a project. Use
@code{git_identity_set} through MCP when identity is missing; do not repair it by
opening a shell on the host.

@heading Read-only Git inspection

@table @code
@item git_status
Report current branch and porcelain-style status entries.
@item git_branch_current
Return current branch, upstream, ahead/behind, and detached state.
@item git_branch
Report local branch list with the current branch marked.
@item git_branch_list
Report local and remote branches with refs, commit ids, upstream, and scope.
@item git_branch_compare
Compare refs: ahead/behind, commits, and changed files.
@item git_branch_sync_status
Report whether a branch is synchronized with its upstream.
@item git_remote
List configured remotes.
@item git_log
Read commit history, optionally scoped to a revision or file.
@item git_show
Show one commit/object.
@item git_diff
Show diffs between refs or between a ref and the worktree.
@item git_blame
Show blame information for a file/range.
@end table

These commands are the preferred first step before any mutating action. For an
agent workflow, collect @code{git_status}, @code{git_branch_current}, and the
relevant @code{git_diff} before deciding how to stage, commit, merge, or reset.

@heading Branch and remote workflow

@table @code
@item git_branch_create
Create a local branch, optionally checking it out.
@item git_branch_checkout
Switch branches; can create a branch from a start point.
@item git_branch_delete
Delete a local branch, with force support for cleanup branches.
@item git_branch_track_remote
Create or checkout a local branch tracking a remote branch.
@item git_branch_set_upstream
Set upstream tracking for the current or named branch.
@item git_branch_unset_upstream
Remove upstream tracking.
@item git_branch_fetch
Fetch a branch from a remote.
@item git_branch_pull
Pull one branch from a remote.
@item git_branch_push
Push one branch and optionally set upstream.
@item git_branch_delete_remote
Delete a remote branch.
@item git_remote_add
Add a local remote configuration entry without contacting the remote.
@item git_remote_set_url
Replace the fetch URL for an existing remote.
@item git_remote_set_push_url
Set a dedicated push URL while leaving the fetch URL unchanged.
@item git_remote_remove
Remove a local remote configuration entry; use @code{dry_run=true} first when
an agent is unsure.
@item git_remote_rename
Rename a local remote configuration entry.
@item git_fetch
Fetch from a remote.
@item git_pull
Pull the current branch.
@item git_push
Push the current or selected branch; supports dry-run workflows.
@end table

Normal branch workflow:

@enumerate
@item @code{git_branch_current} and @code{git_status}.
@item @code{git_branch_create} with @code{checkout=true}.
@item Edit files through MCP file commands.
@item @code{git_add}, @code{git_commit}.
@item @code{git_branch_push} or @code{git_push}.
@item Use GitHub PR commands when a review flow is needed.
@end enumerate

Remote configuration rules:

@itemize
@item
Use @code{git_remote_add}, @code{git_remote_set_url},
@code{git_remote_set_push_url}, @code{git_remote_remove}, and
@code{git_remote_rename} to edit local @file{.git/config} remote entries.
These commands do not fetch, pull, push, or perform SSH authentication.
@item
Run @code{git_remote} before and after a remote configuration change when an
audit trail is needed.
@item
Do not pass inline credentials in remote URLs; configure authentication through
the server's SSH or secret flow.
@end itemize

@heading Working tree, index, and stash

@table @code
@item git_add
Stage explicit paths, all changes, or tracked updates.
@item git_commit
Create or amend a commit from staged changes.
@item git_restore
Restore worktree paths and/or unstage paths. Worktree restore can discard
uncommitted content.
@item git_reset
Reset HEAD/index/worktree. @code{mode=hard} requires @code{confirm_hard=true}.
@item git_clean
Preview or delete untracked files. Defaults to @code{dry_run=true}; deletion
requires @code{confirm=true}.
@item git_stash_push
Save working-tree changes to stash, optionally scoped to paths.
@item git_stash_list
List stash entries.
@item git_stash_apply
Apply a stash entry, optionally keeping it.
@item git_stash_drop
Drop a stash entry.
@end table

Safety rules:

@itemize
@item
Prefer explicit @code{paths} for @code{git_add}, @code{git_restore},
@code{git_reset}, and @code{git_clean}.
@item
Run @code{git_clean} without @code{confirm=true} first and inspect the dry-run
output.
@item
Use @code{git_reset mode=hard confirm_hard=true} only after proving that no
valuable worktree changes remain.
@end itemize

@heading History surgery and integration

@table @code
@item git_merge
Merge another ref into the current branch. Supports @code{ff_only},
@code{no_ff}, @code{squash}, @code{commit=false}, messages, and
@code{abort=true}.
@item git_rebase
Replay current or selected branch onto another base. Supports @code{onto},
@code{autostash}, @code{abort}, @code{continue_rebase}, and @code{skip}.
Interactive rebase is intentionally not exposed.
@item git_cherry_pick
Apply one or more commits. Supports @code{no_commit}, @code{abort}, and
@code{continue_pick}.
@item git_revert
Create inverse changes or commits. Supports @code{no_commit}, merge
@code{mainline}, @code{abort}, and @code{continue_revert}.
@item git_tag
List, create, delete, push, or delete remote tags. Deletion requires
@code{confirm_delete=true}; release tags should normally be annotated with
@code{message}.
@end table

Prefer @code{git_revert} over @code{git_reset} on shared branches. Use
@code{git_rebase} primarily for unpublished local branches. For merge/rebase,
conflicts are reported as command failures with Git diagnostics in stderr; use
status/diff commands plus MCP file editing to resolve, then continue or abort.

@heading Repository maintenance and safe automation

The MCP Git layer includes administrative repository maintenance commands so
agents do not need a host shell when normal Git workflows are blocked by stale
locks, mixed ownership, or write-permission drift in a registered project.

@table @code
@item git_repo_permissions_check
Inspect @file{.git}, the working tree, or both for owner/group mismatches,
missing write/search permissions, and effective CAS write access. The command
also performs short-lived write probes in the project root and
@file{.git/objects}.
@item git_repo_permissions_repair
Repair owner/group and file modes for @file{.git}, the working tree, or both.
It defaults to @code{dry_run=true}; real changes require
@code{confirm_repair=true}. If files are owned by a user the CAS process cannot
change, the command reports the exact paths and the required host-level repair.
@item git_repo_doctor
Produce one operational report: branch/status, stash list, stale lock
candidates, permission report, and write probes. Run this before a multi-step
automation or after a failed pull/stash/commit.
@item git_repo_lock_cleanup
List or remove stale @file{.git/*.lock} and @file{.git/**.lock} files. Deletion
requires @code{confirm_cleanup=true}; use @code{dry_run=true} first.
@item git_pull_safe
Guarded pull workflow: capture status, stash dirty tracked/untracked work,
pull the selected remote/ref, optionally apply the temporary stash, and
optionally drop it after a clean apply. The response is a step-by-step audit
trail, not just a final success flag.
@end table

Recommended recovery flow when @code{git_pull}, @code{git_stash_push}, or
@code{git_commit} fails with permission or lock diagnostics:

@enumerate
@item Run @code{git_repo_doctor}.
@item If permissions are dirty, run @code{git_repo_permissions_repair} with
@code{dry_run=true}; inspect planned actions.
@item Run @code{git_repo_permissions_repair dry_run=false confirm_repair=true}
only when the planned owner/group/mode changes are correct for the registered
project.
@item If stale locks remain, run @code{git_repo_lock_cleanup dry_run=true};
delete only confirmed stale locks.
@item Prefer @code{git_pull_safe} over manually composing stash/pull/apply/drop
when updating a dirty server checkout from a remote branch.
@end enumerate

These commands are project-scoped and use @code{project_id}; they never accept a
host working directory. Their full JSON schemas, return contracts, error cases,
and examples are included in @ref{Command reference,,Command reference}.

@heading GitHub operations

@table @code
@item github_repo_get
Read one repository.
@item github_repo_list
List repositories visible to the configured GitHub token.
@item github_pr_list
List pull requests.
@item github_pr_get
Read one pull request in detail.
@item github_pr_create
Create a pull request.
@item github_pr_merge
Merge a pull request.
@item github_issue_list
List issues.
@item github_issue_create
Create an issue.
@item github_issue_comment
Add an issue or pull-request comment.
@item github_release_create
Create a GitHub release.
@end table

GitHub commands use the configured token and repository parameters. Read-only
commands are safe for discovery. Write commands create public repository state;
agents should only execute them when the requested outcome explicitly includes a
PR, issue, comment, merge, or release.

@heading Coverage boundary

The Git/GitHub command set is sufficient for normal repository work without a
terminal: inspect, branch, edit through MCP file commands, stage, commit, stash,
sync, push, create PRs/issues/releases, merge, rebase, cherry-pick, revert, tag,
reset, and clean. @code{git worktree} is intentionally not part of this block
yet because it commonly creates directories outside the registered project root;
it needs an explicit allowed-path policy before being exposed safely.

@node Command reference, Systemd, Git and GitHub commands, Top
@chapter Command reference

The MCP @code{info} command exposes a runtime-generated @code{Command reference}
node. That node is built from the live command registry after all command hooks
have registered their classes and after metadata finalization has run.

It includes, for every registered command:

@itemize
@item
command name, category/group, version, and description;
@item
input schema properties, required parameters, defaults, enums, and
@code{additionalProperties};
@item
extended command metadata: detailed description, return contract, usage
examples, error cases, and best practices when published by the command;
@item
Git, GitHub, file, project, queue, session, search, worker, database, AST/CST,
analysis, backup, logging, transfer, and system commands registered in the
running server.
@end itemize

Use it through MCP:

@example
call_server(server_id="code-analysis-server", copy_number=1,
            command="info",
            params=node:Command reference,format:text,max_chars:250000)
@end example

Because it is generated from the live registry, the command reference stays in
sync with newly added commands without requiring this static Texinfo file to
duplicate every command description. The static manual remains the deployment
and operations guide; the dynamic node is the authoritative full command catalog.

@node Systemd, Environment, Command reference, Top
@chapter Systemd

@table @asis
@item @code{casmgr-postgres.service}
Oneshot unit: starts Docker container via @code{casmgr-postgres-container start}. Requires Docker.
@item @code{casmgr-server.service}
Runs @code{python -m code_analysis.main --config /etc/casmgr/config.json --daemon} as @code{casuser}. Requires @code{casmgr-postgres.service}. Loads @file{/var/casmgr/secrets/.env}.
@end table

@example
sudo systemctl enable casmgr-postgres casmgr-server
sudo systemctl start casmgr-postgres
sudo casmgr-pg-init
sudo systemctl start casmgr-server
sudo systemctl status casmgr-postgres casmgr-server
sudo systemctl restart casmgr-server
sudo journalctl -u casmgr-server -f
@end example

The package starts @code{casmgr-server} automatically only when config has no @code{CHANGE_ME} or @code{MCP_PROXY_HOST} placeholders and all five mTLS files exist.

@node Environment, Upgrade and removal, Systemd, Top
@chapter Environment

Admin scripts and services honor these variables when set:

@table @asis
@item @code{CASMGR_CONFIG}
Path to @file{config.json} (default @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json}).
@item @code{CASMGR_SECRETS}
Secrets directory (default @file{/var/casmgr/secrets}).
@item @code{CASMGR_ETC}, @code{CASMGR_VAR}, @code{CASMGR_LOG}
Configuration, data, and log roots under FHS layout.
@item @code{CASMGR_PG_CONTAINER}
Docker container name (default @code{casmgr-postgres}).
@item @code{CASMGR_DOCKER_IMAGE_FILE}
Pinned image ref (default @file{/usr/share/casmgr/docker-image}).
@item @code{CODE_ANALYSIS_DAEMON_PYTHON}, @code{CASMGR_PYTHON}
Override Python interpreter for admin tooling.
@end table

@node Upgrade and removal, Troubleshooting, Environment, Top
@chapter Upgrade and removal

@strong{Upgrade:} installing a newer @code{.deb} pulls the new pinned image, removes the old
container, creates a new one, and re-runs initialization helpers. Data in
@file{/var/casmgr/postgres/data} is preserved. Conffiles @file{/etc/casmgr/config.json} and @file{/var/casmgr/secrets/.env} are kept.

@strong{Remove:} @code{apt remove casmgr-server} stops services and removes the container.

@strong{Purge:} @code{apt purge casmgr-server} also runs @code{docker rmi} on the pinned image.
@file{/var/casmgr} data is retained unless deleted manually.

Replaces legacy package @code{code-analysis-server}; disables @code{code-analysis-server.service} if present.

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting

@heading Address already in use (MCP port)

Production uses port @strong{15010}; dev checkout uses @strong{15000}. Stop one instance or align @code{server.port} in config. Check listeners: @code{ss -tlnp | grep -E '15000|15010'}.

@heading initdb: Operation not permitted

Ensure @file{/var/casmgr/postgres/data} is owned by UID 999 (postgres in the official image):

@example
sudo chown -R 999:999 /var/casmgr/postgres/data /var/casmgr/postgres/cache
@end example

@heading Server cannot connect to PostgreSQL

Check @code{casmgr-postgres} is running, port 5432 is published on @code{127.0.0.1}, and
@file{/var/casmgr/secrets/.env} matches @code{password_env} in config. Re-apply passwords:

@example
sudo casmgr-pg-set-password
sudo systemctl restart casmgr-server
@end example

@heading Password rotation failed

Set @code{POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_CONNECT_PASSWORD} to the @strong{current} cluster superuser password, update @code{POSTGRES_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD} to the new value, then run @code{sudo casmgr-pg-set-password}.

@heading Wrong Docker image version

Inspect @file{/usr/share/casmgr/docker-image} and reinstall the matching package version.

@heading Missing Python modules after install

@example
sudo dpkg --configure casmgr-server
@end example

@bye
